in this lesson,
where are going to be setting up the basic structure for the Web page that we're building?
And that's going to be a single page website where it's going to scroll down to the various
sections of the site.
So have opened up the editor on the left hand side.
This is going to be brackets that I'm using available of brackets Io.
And this is the editor that I'm gonna be using for the upcoming lessons as well.
I've got on the right hand side,
the browser window open.
I'm using chrome,
and it's opened up on the right hand side.
I've done the life preview in brackets,
and that's where I've opened up the Web page.
So this is just a blank index dot html page,
and we're ready to add in all of the bootstrap structure and HTML structure,
so you can always go over to bootstrap,
get bootstrap dot com,
click get started,
and this will give you the links to the Cdn for the styling as well as for the JavaScript.
It gives you some more information and this Wallace a nice starter template.
So this is usually where I like to start and grab the starter template,
go back into brackets and paste the starter template.
So this gives you the basic structure for your Web page and update the title makes some
fine tuning as needed.
And of course,
you can get rid of the commenting and the hello world.
We're not gonna be needing that,
but you are gonna need to have the Jake worry.
And we're also going to be using some customized hickory toe have a smooth scroll.
So eventually we are going to update the unified Slim J.
Corey Library to the full gene quarry library.
So going into the body,
we want to add in the basic structure for a website.
So we are going to need to have a navigation bar.
We're also gonna have a header area,
and then we've got our main container where all of our content is going to go.
And then lastly,
we're gonna set up a footer and the footer is going to be obviously for the footer content
.
Let's set up all of the basic elements that we need.
And within the main section,
I'm gonna add in a number of different sections,
so just have one will create one as a template.
And then we got a duplicate this for the other sections will have five sections for this
project and the navigation.
Whenever you click any of the knave bars,
it's gonna go directly to the sections that are indicated within the hyperlink.
And within the HTML structure,
we're gonna have multiple sections that we're gonna be using.
And they are all going to get linked from the main navigation bar.
So it's set those up so each one of these pages is gonna have to have an I d.
And because this is a single page website were going to do that and within the sections and
as well,
we're going to do that within the header.
So the header is the 1st 1 that we're gonna look at and going into the header create a div
.
Given an I.
D.
So that it can be identified and this is gonna be the location where the hyperlink is gonna
take you to.
I'm going to give it an I d of splash.
So all the contents contained within Splash are going to be what is going to make up that
mean header area and as well.
We're going to create another div inside,
and this is gonna be our main container.
And I'm gonna use container fluid so each one of these sections or pages are gonna have
their own set of containers and then structure within their.
And this is gonna be typically the grid structure that we're going to be using from
bootstrap,
which is allow us to create some type of structure and grid for the content contained.
So let's do one more div.
And within this stiff setting up I A class and that's going to be a class of column dash MD
eight and we're gonna center this column and this is where all of our mean content is going
to go.
And for now,
we'll just type in welcome content and then going into the main area.
So this is gonna be where all of our main content is going to go for the site and going
into main,
set up a class and going under the container class.
So all of the sections are going to be slightly indented and have gutters on the site
because this is going to be in container,
whereas this is container fluid.
And then we're now we're gonna work on the individual sections.
We want tohave five different pages.
So one is splash.
We've already done that one.
The next one is just gonna be a section so contents contained within that section to give
the section and I d and whatever you want to make those different pages,
I could have an about page and as well there's gonna be projects and contact and whatever
other pages that you want to display here,
you can have as many as you want because this is this gonna be all related to the
navigation bar.
How many items you want?
A place is dependent on the navigation bar,
and I also want to add in that class of text center.
So this will center all of the text contained within these sections.
You may or may not one apply the centering of the text.
So this is a bootstrap class that's gonna center all of the text that's contained within
also gonna have an h two and this is just going to see what this section is.
So call it about us,
and the reason I'm using H two is more for s e o purposes as we're gonna be applying a
bootstrap class and the bootstrap class is going to be displayed Dash three.
So it's gonna make it nice and big and really stand out.
And then just below that,
the h two you can add in all of your content and we'll have another class,
another div.
And this could have a class of rope.
And then within the rule,
one more class and this one is gonna be the columns M d eight and I usually prefer to use
the MD break points and then one last one.
We're just gonna add in some content.
So this a paragraph with some Laura Ipsen content.
So it looks like we are good with that type of structure for the about us.
Let's create the other sections.
And we can do this by simply copying and pasting those sections.
So we did have the about section and another about section,
and we're going to create four of these and then we can update the contents of those
sections.
So we've got our first about area,
and then this one obviously can't be called a boat,
So give this one a separate I D and the I d is really important because this is how we're
gonna select the derrick various sections and this is gonna be a listing of the projects
contained within that section.
So all of the different projects can be listed out here.
And I'm gonna get rid of this place holder,
and we're gonna do do customized one for that one.
There's also the company information.
So maybe the story of how the company came to be.
So instead of about,
I'll call this one story and our story,
and I'll also customize the contents contained in this section and then lastly,
we're gonna have one called contact Contact us and as well,
same thing will customize the contents came contained within their.
So it looks like we're ready to continue with our website.
So as long as you have been able to set up the different pages that you want for your
project,
you can use the same pages that I'm using in this demonstration and next,
we're going to set up the navigation bar and apply some more styling to bring our project
toe life.
So it's still to come in the next lessons